[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It seems to me that this
spiritual journey is a process
of tuning very, very slowly.
It's like diving.
You have to acclimate at
each level of depth of water.
And at each level, you're
getting different information,
which leads you to a
different conclusion.
So you get down 2 feet,
and you look around,
and you see a beautiful
fish, and you say that's God.
And you follow that fish.
And then as you get acclimated,
you're able to then go deeper.
And the minute you
go deeper, you look,
and the whole universe
looks different.
And there's a whole new fish
to look at that attracts you.
And in a way, as you go
into the spiritual journey
along the way, you shouldn't be
afraid to jump into a method,
and you shouldn't be afraid,
if the method feels like you're
done with it, to go on.
Now there are other times when
your inner feeling will say,
I've gone as far as I can go
with this method at this level,
and what I'd really like to do
is go deeper in this method.
And you'll make a kind of a
renewed effort to go deeper.
That is information that
only you have, really.
Nobody can tell
you how to do that.
I mean, people that are
committed to their path
will say, well, you've done
a wise thing to come to me
and follow my path.
And then you say, well, I don't
know whether to go deeper in it
or leave.
They say, we'll go deeper,
because of their commitment,
unless they are very wise
beings, in which they will say,
listen to your own heart.
You will find that your karmic
predicament will pull you
to a path sooner or later.
And you will feel
at a certain point
the nonsense of looking
here and there is all over.
I've found my way through.
Some people will be very drawn
to working with their minds
to quieting their minds.
And then they'll get to a point
where their mind is reasonably
quiet like a lot of my friends
who are Vipassana meditators.
They go, and they
follow their breath.
And they follow
Joseph to Hawaii,
and they follow their breath.
And then they go to Switzerland,
And they go to Barry, and
they follow their breath.
And they get to be master
Vipassana meditators.
And then you can
feel that there's
something in them screaming
that isn't getting fed.
They can't break through to
the next level by that method.
And at that point, some of
them just blow sky high.
They leave Vipassana,
and they go out,
and they have mad love
affairs, and they smoke dope,
and they do all kinds of stuff.
And then some time later,
either they go back to Vipassana
from a new level or they
found another method.
Either way, you don't know.
Other people get to
Vipassana, and they
get to that sticky
place, and they just say,
what I'm going to
do is I'm going
to do a three-month meditation.
And they go in.
And for the first two months,
it's just like it was before,
but there's a way in which
they are so one-pointed and so
determined, they come through.
And suddenly, they're
in a whole new place.
Do you hear what I'm
saying, that there
isn't a rule of thumb
about playing this game?
You really just have to keep
listening from day to day.
[MUSIC PLAYING]